Improve & add components section to Editor intro (#322)
spyder-ide/spyder-docs: doc/panes/editor.rst

Editor
######

Spyder's multi-language **Editor** pane is the key element of the IDE, where you can create, open, and modify source files.
The Editor offers a variety of core features, such as autocompletion, real-time analysis, syntax highlighting, horizontal and vertical splitting, and much more.
In addition, it integrates a number of powerful tools for an easy to use, efficient editing experience.

.. image:: /images/editor/editor-standard.png
   :alt: Spyder's Editor panel, split horizontally and with style analysis

==============
Key components
==============

The Editor pane consists of the following areas:

.. image:: /images/editor/editor-components.png
   :alt: Spyder's Editor pane, showing its different areas (described below)

1. The left sidebar shows line numbers and displays any code analysis errors/warnings that exist in the current file.

>    Clicking a line number selects the code/text on that line.

Reviewer: Should we mention here that users can set breakpoints by doing a right-click to the right of line numbers?

Reviewer 2: (See discussion below)

> 1. The left sidebar shows line numbers and displays any code analysis errors/warnings that exist in the current file.
>    Clicking a line number selects the code/text on that line.

Reviewer 2: What about this?

```suggestion
1. The left sidebar shows line numbers and displays any code analysis warnings that exist in the current file.
   Left-clicking a line number selects the text on that line, and right-clicking to the right of it sets a :ref:`breakpoint <debugging-breakpoints>`.
```

You'll also need to add an appropriately named reference target in `panes/debugging.rst` like so (FYI, I really should go in and add ref targets to all headings, so we don't need to do this in the future):

```rst
.. image:: /images/debugging/debugging-multiline.gif
   :alt: Debugger showing multiline debugger

.. _debugging-breakpoints:

===========
Breakpoints
===========
```

I also simplified it a touch elsewhere to compensate.

Reviewer 3: Isn't it **left**-clicking to the right of the line number to set a breakpoint?

Reviewer: You're totally right @jitseniesen! Thanks for catching that.

Reviewer: My suggestion

```suggestion
1. The left sidebar shows line numbers and displays any code analysis errors/warnings that exist in the current file.
   Left-clicking a line number selects the text on that line, and doing it to the right of it sets a :ref:`breakpoint <debugging-breakpoints>`.
```

My suggestion to address @jitseniesen's comment.

Reviewer 2: Thanks, I should have noticed that too, sorry. I've edited the original, and repeat it here for clarity:

```suggestion
1. The left sidebar shows line numbers and displays any code analysis warnings that exist in the current file.
   Clicking a line number selects the text on that line, and clicking to the right of it sets a :ref:`breakpoint <debugging-breakpoints>`.
```

Reviewer: Ok, I agree with this suggestion.

Reviewer 2: Just so it doesn't get lost, @hyounes4560 , in addition to the suggestion, you'll also need to add the indicated ref target label to `panes/debugging.rst` as [shown above](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder-docs/pull/322#discussion_r944763545). Thanks!

Editor
######

Spyder's multi-language **Editor** pane is the key element of the IDE where users can create, open, and modify code files.
The Editor offers a variety of core features like autocompletion, real-time analysis, syntax highlighting, horizontal and vertical splitting, and much more.
In addition, it uniquely integrates a number of powerful tools for an easy to use, efficient editing experience.

.. image:: /images/editor/editor-standard.png
   :alt: Spyder's Editor panel, split horizontally and with style analysis

===========================
The Editor's key components
===========================

The editor pane consists of the following areas:

.. image:: /images/editor/editor-components.png
   :alt: Spyder's Editor pane, showing its different areas (described below)

1. The left sidebar shows line numbers and displays any code analysis errors/warnings that exist in the current file.

>    Clicking a line number highlights the code in that line.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Clicking a line number selects the code on that line.
```

I actually never knew this, I always just triple-clicked the line—learned a new thing!

* Use clearer and more accurate terminology ("highlight" refers to merely visual _display_, e.g. that the line is shown in a brighter color when clicked, which is what I thought this meant at first, whereas "select" refers to the actual UI _functionality_ of text selection, as actually meant here)
* Use a slightly more idiomatic conjunction

.. image:: /images/editor/editor-code-error.png
   :alt: Spyder Editor, showing an example of a code error popup message

> 2. The right and bottom scrollbars help navigate the code in the current file vertically and horizontally.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. The scrollbars allow vertical and horizontal navigation in a file.
```

* Use clearer, easier to read/understand and more comfortable structure
* Be more concise, particularly since a scrollbar is common to almost all graphical applications, and this section is a fairly high-level summary

> 3. The Context menu displays actions relevant to the editor pane.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. The context (right-click) menu displays actions relevant to whatever was clicked.
```

* The context menu changes depending on where in the Editor (or indeed, anywhere in the UI) you click, so clarify that here
* Move "right-click" from previous sentence
* Fix "Context" capitalization

>    To display the editor's context menu, right-click anywhere over it and a list of possible options will appear under the cursor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Since a context menu is a common feature of most Spyder panes, and indeed many/most graphical applications, I don't think we need to go into this level of detail here, especially since this is supposed to be a fairly high-level summary, and it repeats a lot of the previous sentence. Instead, we can just move the key bit, "right-click", to the previous sentence, and elide the rest.

> 4. Another menu called the Options menu appears when clicking the "Hamburger" icon at the top right, which includes useful settings and actions relevant to the editor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. The options menu ("Hamburger" icon at top right) includes useful settings and actions relevant to the Editor.
```

* Revise phrasing to be simpler, more concise and easier to read
* The others all lead with "The [thing name] [what it does]", so frame this the same way
* The "options menu" is lowercase, by convention (we don't use Proper Case unless its actually named such in the GUI), while Editor is Proper Case

Editor
######

Spyder's multi-language **Editor** pane is the key element of the IDE where users can create, open, and modify code files.
The Editor offers a variety of core features like autocompletion, real-time analysis, syntax highlighting, horizontal and vertical splitting, and much more.
In addition, it uniquely integrates a number of powerful tools for an easy to use, efficient editing experience.

.. image:: /images/editor/editor-standard.png
   :alt: Spyder's Editor panel, split horizontally and with style analysis

===========================
The Editor's key components
===========================

The editor pane consists of the following areas:

> .. image:: /images/editor/editor-pane.png

Author: Will use it; thanks

.. image:: /images/editor/editor-outline-standard.png
   :alt: Spyder outline panel, showing the functions/classes/methods in a file
The editor pane consists of the following areas:

Real-time code and style analysis with ``pyflakes`` and ``pycodestyle``:
.. image:: /images/editor/editor-pane.png
   :alt: Spyder's Editor panel, showing the different areas of the editor

> .. image:: /images/editor/editor-inset-code-analysis.png

Author: Will leave for now as I will be writing about code analysis and may need this image. tnx

> .. image:: /images/editor/editor-inset-code-analysis.png

Reviewer 2: Okay, sounds good.

> .. image:: /images/editor/editor-pane-code-error.png

Reviewer 2: I like the idea here and I think this is good overall.

It did take me some time to parse the error message and the code and connect the two together here, even as an experienced Python and Spyder user, and I suspect the reason for the error message would not be obvious to many less experienced readers. I suggest picking a clearer error message and with simpler code to make it easier for newer users to see how the error message can tell them what the problem is.

Also, its a little hard to read due to the error message overlapping the error line, and most of the right hand side of the image could be cropped off to focus specifically on the important content.

Putting it all together, here's one example of what you could do:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17051931/182768354-3a76b16e-aad2-4e15-84ee-3a8084597a7f.png)

In case you actually want to use it, here's the file (which was around 10x smaller than the original after optimization): [editor-code-error.zip](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder-docs/files/9256819/editor-code-error.zip)

Also, renaming as above to elide "pane":

```suggestion
.. image:: /images/editor/editor-code-error.png
```

Author: The purpose here is to show users any error/warning in their code; it's not about the clarity of the message nor the complexity of the code. This was just an example error message and in their own context, error/warning messages would make more sense to them. anyway; I will use your image. Thanks

Author: I have a question - why are we keeping this image? As per your last review comment you asked to remove the option menu's image **"which would also avoid it breaking up the flow of the numbered list of components and would make them shorter, where it is easier for readers to see both the image and the annotations and thus easier to understand and follow."**

Reviewer 2: > The purpose here is to show users any error/warning in their code; it's not about the clarity of the message nor the complexity of the code.

Yeah, that's true, the code and the specific message isn't so important; we just don't want them to distract or confuse users or detract from the focus on what the screenshot *is* trying to communicate.

> I have a question - why are we keeping this image?

That is a good question, and one I'd also had myself but wasn't totally sure about the answer. The nominal rationale for keeping it unlike the other is that it is a much smaller image, wouldn't be duplicated somewhere else and doesn't require additional work. But if you're already going to have a section discussing the code analysis features, you could just use this image (or others of your choice) over there, which might be better. I defer to your judgement here.

If you do, make sure to remove the added image from this PR; it'll still be available on older commits in your branch and you can also keep a copy somewhere else convenient, of course.

Reviewer 2: By the way, for this it would have been really helpful to have a high-level outline of the sections you plan to write and the overall content of each. However, I can't seem to find these documents in the Documentation folder of our Spyder Google Drive, and I don't believe I've received a link to them. If you have something like that, do you think either you or @steff456 could check on that? Thanks!

>    :alt: Spyder outline panel, showing an example of a code error

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   :alt: Spyder Editor, showing an example of a code error popup message
```

This is still the Editor; the Outline is a separate pane. Also, be a little more descriptive and specific about what's being shown

2. The right and bottom scrollbars help navigate the code in the current file vertically and horizontally.
3. The Context menu displays actions relevant to the editor pane. To display the editor's context menu, right-click anywhere over it and a list of possible options will appear under the cursor.
4. Another menu called the Options menu appears when clicking the "Hamburger" icon at the top right, which includes useful settings and actions relevant to the editor.

> 
> .. image:: /images/editor/editor-pane-options-menu.png
>    :alt: Spyder outline panel with the options menu expanded
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

At least per the current convention used on all the other panes that have substantial Options menus, we have a separate section specifically describing the functionality, where this screenshot would likely be a better fit, since it will be needed there anyway. Therefore, I would suggest saving it for that section and linking it here once you add it, which would also avoid it breaking up the flow of the numbered list of components and would make them shorter, where it is easier for readers to see both the image and the annotations and thus easier to understand and follow.

Also, for when this is used, it should be cropped to focus just on the outline menu, like all the similar screenshots in the other panes' docs are. This takes up much less space on screen and in the file, helps the reader focus on what's important and makes it much easier to read; as it stands now, I find it very hard to read the text.

Editor
######

Spyder's multi-language **Editor** pane is the key element of the IDE, where you can create, open, and modify source files.
The Editor offers a variety of core features, such as autocompletion, real-time analysis, syntax highlighting, horizontal and vertical splitting, and much more.

> In addition, it  integrates a number of powerful tools for an easy to use, efficient editing experience.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition, it integrates a number of powerful tools for an easy to use, efficient editing experience.
```

Teeny tiny nit, but It looks like a stray space was retained when this change was manually applied—as a tip, if you use GitHub's "Apply suggestions" feature as I've mentioned, you can be sure that any mistakes are 100% on me :joy: (plus, its a lot faster and easier both for reviewers and yourself :)

.. image:: /images/editor/editor-standard.png
   :alt: Spyder's Editor panel, split horizontally and with style analysis

==============
Key components
==============

The Editor pane consists of the following areas:

.. image:: /images/editor/editor-components.png

>    :alt: Spyder's Editor pane, showing its different areas (described below)
> 
> 
> 1. The left sidebar shows line numbers and displays any code analysis errors/warnings that exist in the current file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   :alt: Spyder's Editor pane, showing its different areas (described below)

1. The left sidebar shows line numbers and displays any code analysis errors/warnings that exist in the current file.
```

It looks like relative to my suggestions, an extra line break got added here...

   Clicking a line number selects the code/text on that line.
2. The scrollbars allow vertical and horizontal navigation in a file.
3. The context (right-click) menu displays actions relevant to whatever was clicked.
4. The options menu ("Hamburger" icon at top right) includes useful settings and actions relevant to the Editor.
5. The location bar at the top of the Editor pane shows the full path of the current file.
6. The tab bar displays the names of all opened files.

>    It also has a :guilabel:`Browse tabs` button (at left) to show every open tab and switch between them—which comes in handy if many are open.
> 
> ===================

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   It also has a :guilabel:`Browse tabs` button (at left) to show every open tab and switch between them—which comes in handy if many are open.

===================
```

And removed here
